- Exception is an abnormal condition that arises in a code sequence at run time.

- When an exceptional condition arises, an object representing that exception is created and thrown in the method that caused the error.

- Exception can be generated by :
      - Java run-time system --> Exception thrown by java relate to fundamental errors that violate the rules of java language or the constraints of java execution environment.

      - Can be manually generated by your code.

- Java Exception handling is managed by 5 keywords.
            i) try
            ii) throw
            iii) catch
            iv) throws
            v) finally


# Uncaught Exceptions : 
     
     class Exc
     {
         public static void main(String[] args)
         {
             int d= 0 ;
             int a = 42/d ;
         }
     }

     Here JAVA runtime system detects the attempt to divide by 0 , it constructs a new exception object and then throws this exception. This causes the execution of Exc class to stop because once an exception has been thrown , it must be caught by an exception handler and deal with immiediately.

     Here we haven't any exception handlers of our own, so the exception is caught by the default handler provided by JAVA run time system.


# Throw

- So far , you have only been catching exceptions that are thrown by the Java run-time system.
- However, it is possible for you your program to throw an exception explicity, using throw statement.
    General form:
        throw ThrowableInstance ;
        - Here, ThrowableInstance must be an object of type Throwable or a subclass of Throwable.
- There are two ways you can obtain a Throwable object
        1) Using a parameter in catch class.
        2) Creating one with the new operator.

The flow of execution stops immiediately after the throw statement ; any subsiquent statements arenot executed. The nearest enclosing try block is inspected to see if it has a catch statement that matches the type of exception. If it does find a match , control is transferred to that statement. If not then the next enclosing try statement is inspected and so on. If no matching catch is found, then the default exception handler haults the program and prints the stack trace.


# Throws
- If a method is capable of causing an exception that it doesn't handle, it must specify this behaviour so that colors of the method can guard themselves against that exception. You do this by including a throws clause  in the methods declaration. 

- A throws clause lists the type of exceptions that a method might throw. This is necessary for all exceptions, except those of type Error or RuntimeException or any of their subclass. All other exceptions that a method can throw must be declared in the throws clause. If they are not, a compile time error will occured.

     General Form:
                   type methodName ( parameter list) throws exceptionList
                   {
                       //body
                   }

# Finally
- When exceptions are thrown, execution in a method takes a rather abrupt(sudden),  nonlinear path that alters the normal flow through the method. Depending upon how the method is coded, it is even possible for an exception to cause the method to return pre maturely. This coulld be a problem in some method.

- The finally keyword is designed to address this kind of problem. Finally created a block of code that will be executed even after a try/catch block has been completed and before the code following the try catch block. The finally block will be executed whether or not an exception is thrown. If an exception is thrown, the finally block will execute even if no catch statement matches the exception. This can be useful for closing file handles and freeing up any other resources. Finally block is optional.

  > Note: Each try statements required at least one catch or finally clause.



# Java Build in Exception

- Must general of these exceptions are subclass of the standard tyoe Runtime Exception.

> Checked exception

- That must be included in a method's throw list if that method can generate one of these Exception and doesnot handle itself.

- Eg: ClassNotFoundException
      IllegalACcessException

> Unchecked Exception

- These exceptions need not be included in any method is throws list.
- Compiler doesnot check to see if a method handles or throw these exception.
- Eg : ArithmeticException, ArrayIndexOutOfRoundsException.






